# SP-TFF
Time-frequency (TF)-domain polarizationanalysis (PA) methods are widely used as a pro-cessing tool to decompose multi-component seismicsignals. However, as a drawback, they are unableto obtain sufficient resolution to discriminate be-tween overlapping seismic phases, as they generallyrely on a low-resolution time-frequency representa-tion (TFR) method. In this paper, we present a newapproach to the TF-domain PA methods. More pre-cisely, we provide an in-detailed discussion on rearrang-ing the eigenvalue decomposition polarization analysis(EDPA) formalism in the frequency domain to obtainthe frequency-dependent polarization properties fromthe Fourier coefficients owing to the Fourier spaceorthogonality. Then, by extending the formulation tothe TF-domain and incorporating sparsity-promotingtime-frequency representation (SP-TFR), we allevi-ate the limited resolution when estimating the TF-domain polarization parameters. The final details of thetechnique are to apply an adaptive sparsity-promotingtime-frequency filtering (SP-TFF) to extract and filterdifferent phases of the seismic wave. By processingearthquake waveforms, we show that by combiningamplitude, directivity, and rectilinearity attributes onthe sparse TF-domain polarization map of the signal,we are able to extract or filter different phases of seismicwaves. The SP-TFF method is evaluated on syntheticand real data associated with the source mechanism oftheMw=8.2earthquake that occurred in the south-southwest of Tres Picos, Mexico. A detailed discussionon the results of these experiments is given, approvingthe efficiency of the technique in separating not only theRayleigh from the Love waves but also to discriminatethem from the body and coda waves.
